---
layout: inner
title: 'Good to know in Vim'
date: 2016-05-31 13:26:34
categories: vim
tags: vim
lead_text: 'vim.'
---
This is my Vim cheatsheet. For noobs only.

# Vim
Undo: u
Redo ctrl+R

y: copy
d: delete
p: paste

# Vim fold
set foldmethod=syntax
set foldcolumn=<n>  <n> number of fold column
zR - open all folds


# Vim diff
vimdiff <file1> <file2>
git diff --word-diff <file1> <file2>

# Vim move
^ start of line
$ end of line
ctrl + u : scroll up fast
ctrl + d : scroll down fast
ctrl + e : scroll up slow
ctrl + y : scroll down slow

# Vim indentation
gg=G - reindent the entire file

# Vim search and replace
:%s/foo/bar/g - search for foo and replace it with bar in the file.
:%s/foo/bar/gc - same as above but this will ask for confirmation before replace.
:%s/foo/bar/gci - case sensitive search.

:%s/pattern//gn

% for the whole file.
'<,'> for the lines of visually selected block. This might get you more than you want of the visual selection starts or ends in the middle of a line. The whole line is included.
.,$ from the current line to the end of the file.


# Vim search
\* - search the next word before index
\# - search previous word before index

# Vim using tabs
Open many files in new tabs
vim -p firtfile secondfile thridfile
vim -p `cat yourlistoffiles`

:tabnew filename - Create a new file in a new tab

:tabe filepath - Open a file in a new tab

:tabn - switches to the next tab.

:tabp - switches to the previous tab.

gt - toggles through all tabs, from left to right.

gT - similar to gt but in opposite direction.

:tabdo %s/foo/bar/g - run a command on all tabs. Eg.: Run command %s/foo/bar/g on all tabs.

:help tab-page-intro - for more help.

# Vim Comments
To comment out blocks in vim:
press Esc (to leave editing or other mode)
hit ctrl+v (visual block mode)
use the up/down arrow keys to select lines you want (it won't highlight everything - it's OK!)
Shift+i (capital I)
insert the text you want, i.e. '% '
press Esc

To uncomment blocks in vim:
press Esc (to leave editing or other mode)
hit ctrl+v (visual block mode)
use the up/down arrow keys to select the lines to uncomment.
If you want to select multiple characters, use one or combine these methods:
use the left/right arrow keys to select more text
to select chunks of text use shift + left/right arrow key
you can repeatedly push the delete keys below, like a regular delete button
press d or x to delete characters, repeatedly if necessary
press Esc





# Good Plugins:

To toogle the mouse press F12
https://github.com/nvie/vim-togglemouse

Jedi Vim for python autocompletion
https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi-vim


In myBundle.vim file insert line:
Plugin <github pluggin. eg.: nvie/vim-togglemouse>

Then run Vim and give command
:PluginInstall


#gvim
https://github.com/vim/vim/issues/1059
:set gfn=FixedSys:h11
